How to resize disks for StatefulSet in GKE (#2310)
sourcegraph/handbook: content/departments/product-engineering/engineering/cloud/devops/resize-disks-in-statefulset.md

# Resize disks in GKE StatefulSet

> Important: this change will caused recreation on all StatefulSet's pods, which can cause donwtime if application is not high-available.

Reviewer: Typo fixes and rephrased to indicate that this is specific to the StatefulSet being modified.

```suggestion
Important: this change will cause recreation of all pods in the StatefulSet, which can cause downtime if application is not highly available.
```

### Steps to resize StatefulSet persistent disks

1. Check the actual disks sizes in GCP

```
gcloud compute disks list
```

2. List existing persistent volumes and corresponding persistent volume claims:

```
kubectl get pv
kubectl get pvc -n prod
```

3. Ensure that the storage class of the volumes for resizing has set `AllowVolumeExpansion=True`

```
kubectl describe sc sourcegraph | grep AllowVolumeExpansion
# should be: AllowVolumeExpansion:  True
```

4. Ensure that storage class of the volumes for resizing has set `ReclaimPolicy=Retain`

```
kubectl describe sc sourcegraph | grep ReclaimPolicy
# should be: ReclaimPolicy: Retain
```

5. Modify persistent volume claims to have new size

Note: do it for ALL persistent volumes used by StatefulSet!

```
kubectl patch pvc repos-gitserver-0 -n prod -p '{ "spec": { "resources": { "requests": { "storage": "<new size>" }}}}'
```

> 6. Ensure that all resized persistent volumes, persistent volume claims and google disks has new value:

Reviewer: Newline after the previous point.

```suggestion

6. Ensure that all resized persistent volumes, persistent volume claims and google disks has new value:
```

```
kubectl get pv
kubectl get pvc -n prod
gcloud compute disks list
```

7. Delete StatefulSet without deleting the pods (`--cascade='orphan'`)

> Important: without `--cascade='orphan'` you will lose the PVs! (But not the GCP disks since  `Retain` is set on the StorageClass)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Important: without `--cascade='orphan'` you will lose the PVs! (But not the GCP disks since `Retain` is set on the StorageClass)
```

```
kubectl delete sts gitserver --cascade=orphan -n prod
```

> 8. Modify  and deploy StatefulSet with extended disk sizes (change `storage` to `<new size>` in this example):

Reviewer: ```suggestion

8. Modify  and deploy StatefulSet with extended disk sizes (change `storage` to `<new size>` in this example):
```

- in [StatefulSet](https://k8s.sgdev.org/github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-cloud/-/blob/base/gitserver/gitserver.StatefulSet.yaml?L148)

> - IN persistent volumes files: https://k8s.sgdev.org/github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-cloud/-/tree/base/gitserver (all files with `repos-gitserver-[NUMBER].PersistentVolume.yaml` names)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- in persistent volumes files: https://k8s.sgdev.org/github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-cloud/-/tree/base/gitserver (all files with `repos-gitserver-[NUMBER].PersistentVolume.yaml` names)
```

- deploy via [buildkite job](https://buildkite.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-cloud)

9. Delete StatefulSet pods one by one

Note:

- wait for each pod to be fully available before moving forward.
- perform it for each pod in StatefulSet

```
kubectl delete pod gitserver-0 -n prod

> ```

Reviewer: Would it be easier to perform a restart with `kubectl rollout restart sts <name>` instead?

Author: This is good idea, but we have to test it, to ensure that after restart new disk is attached - I guess this should work 👍  @daxmc99 do you know if `rollout restart` is enough?

Reviewer: My guess is that this should work because a restart will replace the existing pods. But good idea to verify.

Author: OK, I just have test it on preprod, and `kubectl rollout restart sts gitserver -n prod` caused:
```
gitserver-0                                      0/2     Terminating         0          3d19h
...
gitserver-0                                      0/2     ContainerCreating   0          0s
```
so it deleted and recreated pod 🎉

# Resize disks in GKE StatefulSet

Important: this change will caused recreation on all StatefulSet's pods, which can cause donwtime if application is not high-available.

### Steps to resize StatefulSet persistent disks

1. Check the actual disks sizes in GCP

```
gcloud compute disks list
```

2. List existing persistent volumes and corresponding persistent volume claims:

```
kubectl get pv
kubectl get pvc -n prod
```

3. Ensure that the storage class of the volumes for resizing has set `AllowVolumeExpansion=True`

```
kubectl describe sc sourcegraph | grep AllowVolumeExpansion
# should be: AllowVolumeExpansion:  True
```

4. Ensure that storage class of the volumes for resizing has set `ReclaimPolicy=Retain`

```
kubectl describe sc sourcegraph | grep ReclaimPolicy
# should be: ReclaimPolicy: Retain
```

5. Modify persistent volume claims to have new size

Note: do it for ALL persistent volumes used by StatefulSet!

```

> kubectl patch pvc repos-gitserver-0 -n prod -p '{ "spec": { "resources": { "requests": { "storage": "250Gi" }}}}'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
kubectl patch pvc repos-gitserver-0 -n prod -p '{ "spec": { "resources": { "requests": { "storage": "<new size>" }}}}'
```
Prevent a copy-paste from accidentally bumping a PVC 😅

```

6. Ensure that all resized persistent volumes, persistent volume claims and google disks has new value (250Gi in this example):

```
kubectl get pv
kubectl get pvc -n prod
gcloud compute disks list
```

7. Delete StatefulSet without deleting the pods (`--cascade='orphan'`)

> Important: without `--cascade='orphan'` you will loose the data!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Important: without `--cascade='orphan'` you will lose the PVs! (But not the GCP disks since  `Retain` is set on the StorageClass) ```

```
kubectl delete sts gitserver --cascade=orphan -n prod
```

8. Modify and deploy StatefulSet with extended disk sizes (change `storage` to `250Gi` in this example):

- in [StatefulSet](https://k8s.sgdev.org/github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-cloud/-/blob/base/gitserver/gitserver.StatefulSet.yaml?L148)
- IN persistent volumes files: https://k8s.sgdev.org/github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-cloud/-/tree/base/gitserver (all files with `repos-gitserver-[NUMBER].PersistentVolume.yaml` names)

> - deploy via [buildkite job](https://buildkite.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-cloud)

Reviewer 2: Should we replace these links with `preview.sgdev.dev`?

Author: As soon as we have everything indexed in preprod yes, but now it still does not work: seems like `deploy-sourcegraph-cloud` is not indexed yet.
